---
title: Coal mine methane destruction project now operational, a first in America
permalink: /news/2009-04-20/coal-mine-methane/
...
---

## Montreal, Canada, April 20, 2009 ## – Biothermica, a Quebec-based environmental technology company, announced today that its first VAMOX™ system for the oxidation of methane contained in coal mine ventilation air is fully operational. This VAMOX™ was deployed at Jim Walter Resources' (JWR) No. 4 mine in Alabama, USA. For the first time in the Americas, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in this category, called Ventilation Air Methane (VAM), are destroyed and recovered by generating carbon credits.
Approved by the U.S. Department of Labor's Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), the system oxidized methane for the first time on January 26, 2009 on schedule. Capturing and treating a ventilation air flow of 30,000 CFM, this demonstration unit will reduce GHG emissions by nearly 40,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) per year, which is equivalent to removing 8,000 cars from our roads.
In 2008, VAM emissions accounted for about 5% of global human-caused methane emissions, or approximately 300 million tCO2e. After China, the United States is the 2nd largest emitter, accounting for 15% of this total.
"We are extremely satisfied with the performance and reliability of the VAMOX™ after only a few weeks of operation," said Nicolas Duplessis, Director of Development for VAMOX™. Guy Drouin, President of Biothermica, added: "Coal mine ventilation air accounts for 50 to 70% of their methane emissions. VAMOX™ can certainly help the coal industry minimize its environmental impact. In this sense, we plan to develop similar projects in partnership with other American mines. "
Recognized as an accomplished developer of GHG emission reduction projects, Biothermica always aims to produce high-quality carbon credits. The project at JWR is thus validated in compliance with the Voluntary Carbon Standard (VCS) and is one of the first to be registered on the new APX VCS Registry. [www.vcsregistry.com](http://www.vcsregistry.com)
"Jim Walter Resources is once again positioning itself as an industry leader with the installation of this new technology that enables cleaner coal production," said Thomas E. McNider, the mine's general manager of engineering. "The VAMOX™ is a simple solution because it does not require any modifications to our existing equipment and remains independent of our ventilation system."
Using the proven principle of regenerative thermal oxidation (RTO), the VAMOX™ captures and oxidizes the methane contained in the ventilation air before this powerful GHG is emitted to the atmosphere. With 15 years of experience applied to RTO technology, Biothermica has developed VAMOX™ to offer mines a simple and profitable solution allowing them to significantly reduce their carbon footprint.
## About Biothermica
Founded in Montreal in 1987, Biothermica is a leader in the design, construction and turnkey delivery of solutions for air pollution control, landfill biogas management and the oxidation of methane emitted by coal mines. Biothermica is also a developer of GHG emission reduction projects that finances, structures and invests in technically relevant projects. Biothermica has carried out projects in North America, Latin America, Asia (including China), Africa and Europe. [www.biothermica.com](https://www.biothermica.com)
## About Jim Walter Resources
Jim Walter Resources Inc. (JWR) is the world's largest producer of Blue Creek coal. Recognized worldwide by coal producers, the Blue Creek deposit is located in the heart of the coal-rich Warrior Basin (USA). JWR supplies high-calorific, low-sulfur coal from some of the deepest mines in the Americas. Customers on five continents use Blue Creek coal to meet their needs with demanding metallurgical and thermal specifications. [www.jimwalterresources.com](http://www.jimwalterresources.com)

## Disclaimer
This press release contains certain non-historical statements that constitute forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements regarding future events, trends, plans or objectives. These statements are based on the current views and assumptions of the Company's management and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by such statements.