---
title: Biothermica and Walter Energy Agree to Develop Ventilation Air Methane Projects
permalink: /news/2010-10-05/biothermica-and-walter/
...
---

##Birmingham, Alabama, October 5, 2010## – Biothermica Coal Carbon Corp. and Walter Energy today announced that they have made an agreement dedicated to the development of ventilation air methane (VAM) oxidation projects. The mission is to recover and mitigate VAM emissions from all current and future suitable ventilation shafts at Walter Energy’s coal mines.
The first project under the agreement is planned to be operational in 2011, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 330,000 tons of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) per year. Ultimately, the implementation of the entire pipeline of projects is expected to reduce emissions by more than 3 million tCO2e per year.
“Today more than ever, environmental considerations cannot be ignored and must be addressed,” said Rich Donnelly, Walter Energy’s Vice President Engineering. “This ambitious initiative positions Walter Energy as an industry leader. The tangible steps we are taking today prepare our company for tomorrow’s challenges and ultimately will make us more competitive.”
Upcoming VAM oxidation projects will utilize Biothermica’s proprietary VAMOX® technology, which has been successfully demonstrated at Walter Energy No.4 Mine. Operational since March 2009, this demonstration project currently reduces greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 35,000 tCO2e per year.
“We are thrilled to strengthen our relationship with one of the leading and most successful coal mine operators in the United States,” said Guy Drouin, President of Biothermica. “Our integrated and proven VAM abatement project capabilities, combined with Walter Energy’s forward-looking vision and large VAM potential, will ensure the venture’s success.”
VAM constitutes 60% to 70% of all underground coal mine methane emissions. Worldwide, about 300 million tCO2e are emitted by underground mine ventilation systems each year. With 40 million tCO2e per year, the US is the second largest contributor.
##About Walter Energy##
Walter Energy is a leading U.S. producer and exporter of premium hard coking coal for the global steel industry and also produces steam coal and industrial coal, metallurgical coke and coal bed methane gas. The Company has revenues of approximately $1.0 billion and employs approximately 2,100 people. For more information, visit [www.walterenergy.com](http://www.walterenergy.com).
## About Biothermica
Founded in 1987, Biothermica is a leader in the development, financing, building and operation of projects which capture and destroy methane emitted by landfill sites and underground coal mines. As a fully integrated project developer, the company also monetizes the carbon offset credits generated by its projects on the international markets. Biothermica has completed carbon projects in North and Central America. For more information, visit [www.biothermica.com](../index.html).
## Disclaimer
When reviewing this information consider that it was reported as of the date listed, reflecting management views as of that date. It should also be considered in the context of the circumstances prevailing at that time and is only correct as of that date. The information can contain forward looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.