---
title: Biothermica Wins International Clean Technology Award from the Global Cleantech
  Cluster Association
permalink: /news/2012-11-13/biothermica-wins-international/
...
---

Montreal – Savannah, November 13, 2012 – Biothermica, a leading clean technology company, is proud to announce it has won the Clean Technology Later Stage award delivered by the Global Cleantech Cluster Association (GCCA). The award was received yesterday at the Savannah International Clean Energy Conference, in Georgia.
The GCCA rewards leading companies in the high-growth field of clean technology and renewable energy. This year, ten companies were finally selected among a record 200 nominations.
Biothermica was rewarded for its active engagement, since 1987, in the destruction and utilization of methane emitted by landfills and underground coal mines. The company is notably responsible for the development, financing and implementation of the largest landfill gas power plant in Canada. Since 1996, the Gazmont power plant has generated more than 2 billion kWh of green electricity and reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by more than 11 million tons of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e), namely 700,000 tCO2e per year, the same as removing 150,000 cars from the road.
Biothermica also developed, financed and implemented the first coal mine ventilation air methane (VAM) destruction project at an active underground mine in North America. Based on the company’s proprietary VAMOX® technology, this project has been operational since March 2009 at a Walter Energy mine in Alabama, USA, and is registered with the rigorous Climate Action Reserve (CAR) carbon standard. Over its first 3.5 years of operation, the project has reduced GHG emissions by more than 80,000 tons of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e).
"We are honored to have been selected by the GCCA, and would also like to thank Écotech Quebec, the Quebec clean technology cluster, for supporting our nomination," said Guy Drouin, President of Biothermica. "This award recognizes our long-time involvement in methane destruction and utilization, as well as the importance of tackling these emissions on a global basis."
Looking forward, Biothermica will continue to invest in projects dedicated to extracting value from landfill gas and coal mine methane. Based on the success of its VAMOX® technology in Alabama, Biothermica has partnered with Walter Energy to develop VAM oxidation projects at all of the company’s current and future suitable ventilation shafts. The first project under the agreement is planned to be operational in late 2013, reducing GHG emissions by some 400,000 tCO2e per year. Ultimately, the implementation of the entire pipeline of projects is expected to reduce emissions by approximately 3 million tCO2e per year.
"Biothermica’s innovative technologies and projects are a clear illustration of the contribution of the clean technology industry to Quebec’s sustainable development and the future cap-and-trade carbon market, which will be linked with California through the Western Climate Initiative," said Denis Leclerc, President and CEO of Écotech Québec. "We are proud of this leading Quebec company, as it represents a model for several entrepreneurs which are building Quebec’s green economy."
Methane is the second most important GHG and is 25 times more potent than CO2 over a 100 year period. Coal mine methane and landfill gas emissions combined account for 17% of global methane emissions, namely 1,170 million tCO2e per year.
## About Biothermica
Founded in 1987, Biothermica is a leader in the development, financing, building and operation of projects which capture and destroy methane emitted by landfill sites and underground coal mines. As a fully integrated project developer, the company also monetizes the energy and carbon offset credits generated by its projects on the national and international markets. Biothermica has completed carbon and energy projects in North and Central America. For more information about Biothermica, visit [www.biothermica.com](http://www.biothermica.com)
## Disclaimer
When reviewing this information consider that it was reported as of the date listed, reflected management views as of that date, should be considered in the context of the circumstances prevailing at that time and is only correct as of that date. The information can contain forward looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.