---
title: Guy Drouin honoured by Canada's Clean50
permalink: /news/2016-09-22/guy-drouin-honoured/
...
---

## Guy Drouin, President and CEO of Biothermica, Honoured by Canada's Clean50
Recognized as a leader of Canada's green economy
Montréal, September 20, 2016 — Guy Drouin, President of Biothermica Carbone Inc., is among the recipients of the Canada's Clean50 award (www.clean50.com), which honours leaders from the research community, companies, non-governmental organizations and governments who have distinguished themselves over the last two years through their contribution to sustainable development. Previous honorees include Catherine Potvin, Chris Ragan, and Stewart Elgie.
The award recognizes the development and global commercialization of the VAMOX technology, which destroys methane emissions from coal mining operations.
These emissions account for about 1% of global greenhouse gas emissions. Under Guy Drouin’s leadership, Biothermica financed, built, owned, and operated the first coal mine methane recovery system in North America. This enabled the company to generate more than 80,000 offset credits sold on California’s carbon market, making it the first Canadian company to offer this type of credit there.
## About Biothermica
Founded in 1987, Biothermica is a leader in the development, financing, construction, and operation of projects focused on the destruction and valorization of methane emitted by landfills and underground coal mines. As an integrated developer, the company also markets carbon credits and electricity generated by its projects in domestic and international markets. Biothermica has completed projects in North and Central America.