---
title: Nearly $ 1 million for a Biothermica project in Haiti
permalink: /news/2017-08-29/nearly-1-million/
...
---

### International Climate Cooperation Program: Nearly $ 1M for a Biothermica Technologies project in Haiti
Biothermica Technologies Inc., a Montréal company, is a leader in biogas and underground mine methane, will receive $ 999,617 in government funding through the Green Fund for a biogas valorization project in the municipality of Gonaives, in Haiti.  The project includes the first phase of the implementation of an integrated waste management and recevery system.  This project will create jobs for men and women of Govaives, generate economic repercussions in the region, contribute to clean energy production, combat climate change and a more sober carbon economy.
Martin Coiteux, Minister of Municipal Affairs and Land Occupancy, Minister of Public Security, Minister responsible for the Montréal region, made the announcement on behalf of David Heurtel, Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight Against Climate Change.  Biothermica Technologies' project is one of the 14 international projects selected after the call for projects which ended on January 31, 2017 and for which a global allocation of nearly 10 million dollars was awarded.
The implementation of the project will be a turning point in waste management in the municipality of Gonaives through the installation of a home waste collection system, feasibility studies on the use of innovative biogas recevery technology, energy generation and the issuance of carbon credits under the Clean Development Mechanism of the Kyoto Protocol.
The project focuses on the development of solutions adapted to local needs, the adaptation and deployment of this proven clean technology and the emergence of a dynamic business ecosystem through the establishment of a strong network of partners.  Biothermica has joined a local non-profit organization, Bioénergie Haiti, which will be responsible for the management of the installation in addition to ensure ownership.  The project involves the active participation of several Haitian local groups and the population.
#### Quotes :
"Quebec is responding to the United Nations' call for increased international funding for climate actions in developing countries.  The fight against climate change requires a real commitment on the part of the federated states which possess the expertise and the capacity to support the least favored countries.  This knowledge transfer not only helps fight climate change, but stimulates the economy.  That is why we are proud to support Biothermica Technologies' project, which puts its creativiy and expertise at the service of a world that is more carbon-neutral and more resilient to climate change."
_David Heurtel, Minister of Sustainable Development, the Environment and the Fight Against Climate Change_
"i am pleased with the funding provided to Biothermica Technologies, an innovative Montréal company, under the International Climate Cooperation Program.  By supporting the work of companies such as this one, our metropolis and the Quebec bring their expertise to the field and make a concrete and positive contribution to climate change adaptation efforts in the most vulnerable countries.
_Martin Coiteux, Minister of Municipal Affairs and Land Occupancy, Minister of Public Security, Minister responsible for the Montréal region_
"Since our first mission to Gonaives in 2010, we have established strong links with the Municipality of Gonaives, the central government, the local population and Bioénergie Haiti so that this first integrated  waste management project is a model of North-South cooperation and contributes to the achievement of the GHG reduction targets foreseen in the Paris Agreement.  We welcome the Government of Quebec's commitment to fight climate change not only in Quebec but in the most vulnerable countries, which have a strong need for clean technologies adapted to their local context and contributing to their energy independance."
_Guy Drouin, president of Biothermica Technologies Inc._
## Highlights:

  -  The International Climate Cooperation Program, with an envelop of $ 18 million over five years, supports projects by quebec private sector organizations, international solidarity communities and research aimed at reducing (GHG) and adaptation to the impacts of climate change in the most vulnerable francophone countries.

  -  Funding for the project comes from the Green Fund and is part of the implementation of the 2013-2020 Action Plan on Climate Change, one of which is to promote Québec on the international scene.


  - Founded in 1987, Biothermica Technologies is a leader in the development, financing, construction and operation of methane destruction projects from landfills and underground coal mines.  As an integrated developer, the company also markets carbon credits and energy generated by its projects in domestic and international markets.